#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Developing with eZ Publish
   5 <Developing-with-eZ-Publish-5_2720528.html>`__
#. `MVC and Application <MVC-and-Application_2719826.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : Events
=====================================

Added by jerome.vieilledent@ez.no , edited by ricardo.correia@ez.no on
May 21, 2013

Introduction
============

This page presents the events that are triggered by eZ Publish 5.

eZ Publish Core
===============

Event name

Triggered when...

Usage

**``ezpublish.siteaccess``**

After the SiteAccess matching has occurred.

Gives further control on the matched SiteAccess.

The event listener method receives an
``eZ\Publish\MVC\Event\PostSiteAccessMatchEvent`` object.

**``ezpublish.pre_content_view``**

Right before a view is rendered for a content, via the content view
controller.

This event is triggered by the view manager and allows you to inject
additional parameters to the content view template.

The event listener method receives an
``eZ\Publish\MVC\Event\PreContentViewEvent ``\ object.

 

``ezpublish.api.contentException``

The API throws an exception that could not be caught internally (missing
field type, internal error...).

This event allows further programmatic handling (like rendering a custom
view) for the exception thrown.

The event listener method receives an
``eZ\Publish\MVC\Event\APIContentExceptionEvent`` object.

eZ Publish Legacy
=================

Event name

Triggered when...

Usage

**``ezpublish_legacy.build_kernel_web_handler``**

Right before the build of the legacy kernel web handler.

This event allows to inject parameters into the web handler (mainly for
internal use)

The event listener method receives an
``eZ\Publish\Legacy\Event\PreBuildKernelWebHandlerEvent``

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
