#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : eZ Publish REST API
==================================================

Added by bertrand.dunogier@ez.no , edited by gaetano.giunta@ez.no on Jul
20, 2013

The eZ Publish 5 REST API allows you to interact with an eZ Publish
installation using the HTTP protocol, following a
`REST <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer>`__
interaction model.

Accessing the REST API
----------------------

The REST API is available at the URI ``/api/ezp/v2``. The API from eZ
Publish 4.x remains available at the same URI, ``/api/ezp/v1``. HTTPS is
available as long as your server is properly configured. Refer to the
`Getting started <Getting-started-with-the-REST-API_6292869.html>`__
page to start using the API.

Basics
------

REST (**RE**\ presentationnal **S**\ tate **T**\ ransfer) is a web
services architecture that follows the HTTP Protocol very closely. The
eZ Publish 5 REST API supports both `JSON <http://www.json.org/>`__ and
`XML <http://www.w3.org/XML/>`__, in terms of request format.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

The API provides a set of URIs, each of them identifying and providing
access to operations on a certain resource. For instance, the URI
``/content/objects/59`` will allow you to interact with the Content with
ID 59, while ``/content/types/1`` will allow you to interact with the
ContentType with ID 1.

HTTP verbs
~~~~~~~~~~

It uses HTTP verbs (**``GET``**, **``POST``**, but also **``PUT``**,
**``DELETE``**, etc...), as well as HTTP headers to specify the type of
request. Depending on the used HTTP verb, different actions will be
possible. Example:

-  ``GET /content/objects/2`` will provide you with data about Content
   #2,
-  ``PATCH /content/objects/2`` will update the Content #2's metadata
   (section, main language, main location...),
-  ``DELETE /content/objects/2`` will delete Content #2,
-  ``COPY /content/objects/2`` will create a copy of this Content.

Media type headers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On top of verbs, HTTP request headers will allow you to personalize the
request's behavior. On every resource, you can use the Accept header to
indicate which format you want to communicate in, JSON or XML. This
header is also used to specify the response type you want the server to
send when multiple ones are available.

-  ``Accept: application/vnd.ez.api.Content+xml`` to get **Content**
   (full data, fields included) as **XML**
-  ``Accept: application/vnd.ez.api.ContentInfo+json`` to get
   **ContentInfo** (metadata only) as **JSON**

More information

Icon

`REST specifications chapter "Media
Types" <https://github.com/ezsystems/ezp-next/blob/master/doc/specifications/rest/REST-API-V2.rst#111%C2%A0%C2%A0%C2%A0media-types>`__

Other headers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Other headers will be used in HTTP requests for specifying the
siteaccess to interact with, and of course `authentication
credentials <REST-API-Authentication_6292522.html>`__.

Responses returned by the API will also use custom headers to indicate
information about the executed operation.

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
