#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : FieldTypes
=========================================

Added by ricardo.correia@ez.no , edited by bertrand.dunogier@ez.no on
Nov 30, 2013

| This page contains ``FieldTypes`` reference introduced with eZ Publish
5.x.
| ``FiledTypes`` were known as ``DataTypes`` in eZ Publish 4.x, and are
still used eZ Publish 5.x Legacy. If you would like more details please
refer to the `4.x
DataTypes <http://doc.ez.no/eZ-Publish/Technical-manual/4.x/Reference/Datatypes>`__
reference documentation page.

You can get more details about the FieldTypes in the following list:

 

FieldType

Description

``Author``

Field type used to store a list of authors, consisting of author name,
and author email.

``BinaryFile``

Field type used to store a file.

``Checkbox``

Field type which stores boolean values.

``Country``

This field type stores country names as a string.

``DateAndTime``

Field type used to store a full date including time information.

``Date``

Field type used to store a date information.

``EmailAddress``

This field type is used to validate and store an email address.

``Float``

Field type used to validate and store a decimal value.

``Image``

Field type used to validate and store an image.

``Integer``

Field type which validates and stores an integer value.

``Keyword``

Field type used to store keywords.

``MapLocation``

Field type used to store map coordinates.

``Media``

Validates and stores a media file.

``Null``

This field type is used for fallback and testing purposes.

``Page``

Field type used to manage display zones and blocks in a page (formerly
known as *eZ Flow* datatype).

``Rating``

Field type which stores a rating.

``Relation``

Field type which validates and stores a relation to a content object.

``RelationList``

Field type that validates and stores a list of relations to content
objects.

``Selection``

Field type which validates and stores a single selection or multiple
choices from a list of options.

``TextBlock``

Validates and stores a larger block of text.

``TextLine``

This field type validates and stores a single line of text.

``Time``

Field type used to store a time information.

``Url``

Field type used to store an URL / address.

``User``

Field type that validates and stores information about a user.

``XmlText``

Field type that validates and stores multiple lines of formatted text..

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
