#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Public API <eZ-Publish-Public-API_1736723.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : Public API Cookbook
==================================================

Added by christian.bacher@ez.no , edited by ricardo.correia@ez.no on Aug
02, 2013

The public API will give you an easy access to the eZ Publish content
repository. This repository is the core component that manages content,
locations (nodes in eZ Publish 4.x), sections, content types (Content
Classes in eZ Publish 4.x), users, user groups, and roles. It also
provides a new, clear interface for plugging in custom field types
(datatypes in eZ Publish 4.x).

|  
| The public API is built on top of a layered architecture, including a
persistence API that abstracts storage. By using the public API, you are
sure that your code will be forward compatible with future releases
based on enhanced, scalable and high-performance storage engines.
Applications based on the public API are also fully backwards compatible
by using the included storage engine based on the current kernel and
database model.

About this Cookbook
-------------------

| The objective of this Public API Cookbook is to progressively guide
you through useful, everyday business logic, using the API in concrete
recipes: obtaining a Location from a Content, fetching a set of Content,
creating a User, and so on.

For each recipe, newly introduced elements will be explained in detail,
including the required API components (services, value objects...). 

Icon

Did we forget an important recipe ?

Let us know in the comments.

Suggested tools
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to this cookbook, we strongly recommend that you use a full
featured PHP IDE, such as Eclipse or PhpStorm. It will provide you
information on every piece of code you use, including objects and
classes documentation. We have paid very careful attention to PHPDoc
throughout this API, and such a tool is a very valuable help when using
this API.

On top of this, generated public API documentation can be found online,
in various formats:

-  doxygen:
   `http://apidoc.ez.no/doxygen/trunk/NS/html/ <http://apidoc.ez.no/doxygen/trunk/NS/html/>`__
-  sami:
   `http://apidoc.ez.no/sami/trunk/NS/html/ <http://apidoc.ez.no/sami/trunk/NS/html/>`__

-  `1. Getting started <1.-Getting-started_6292978.html>`__
-  `2. Browsing, finding, viewing <6292980.html>`__
-  `3. Managing Content <3.-Managing-Content_6292982.html>`__
-  `4. Working with
   Locations <4.-Working-with-Locations_6292984.html>`__
-  `5. Other recipes <5.-Other-recipes_6292987.html>`__

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
