#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Developing with eZ Publish
   5 <Developing-with-eZ-Publish-5_2720528.html>`__
#. `Introduction for eZ Publish
   developers <Introduction-for-eZ-Publish-developers_11403947.html>`__
#. `Intro for Symfony
   developers <Intro-for-Symfony-developers_2720602.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : Symfony feature status
=====================================================

Added by andre.romcke@ez.no , edited by gaetano.giunta@ez.no on Jan 14,
2014

CONTENT OF THIS PAGE IS UNDER REVIEW

For a eZ Publish 4.x vs 5.x comparison, see
`here <4.x-feature-comparison_15761755.html>`__.

All Symonfy features are essentially working also in eZ Publish 5; this
page describes features used out of the box however with limitations due
to the eZ Publish 5 features developed on top, and features not used out
of the box for a reason described here.

Limitations of eZ Publish 5 features:
-------------------------------------

Feature

Supported

Limitations

Configuration

All configuration uses standard yml configuration

#. Siteaccess (Semantic) configuration is something that has been built
   on top of Symfony

   #. Standard Services do not support them
   #. They are not cached but lookup occurs based on cached Symfony
      configuration

#. Unit tests currently use ini files and own configuration system

Dependency injection

Injection Supported for all services

#. See known issues (eg. missing possibility to inject Criterion)
#. Unit tests currently use own dependency injection system driven by
   own ini system

Security

Own Firewall voter that uses eZ Publish user rights

#. eZ User is not the same as a Doctrine provided user
#. Limitations do not apply at this stage but instead at data retrieval
   time

Not used out of the box:
------------------------

Feature

Reason

Doctrine

We don't currently use Doctrine DBAL. Available options: use Zeta
Database/Persistence until we switch or be ok with several database
connections. If the latter you can use it like described in symfony doc
by adding doctrine/orm & doctrine/doctrine-bundle via composer and
install it like any other bundle.

Annotations

We don't currently bundle FrameworkExtraBundle which provides support
for Annotating routes/firewall rules on controllers and other features.
Workaround: customer can add it in composer and install it like any
other bundle.

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
