#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes <FieldTypes_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : The TextLine FieldType
=====================================================

Added by ricardo.correia@ez.no , edited by bertrand.dunogier@ez.no on
Jul 16, 2013

TextLine
~~~~~~~~

This field type represents a simple string.

 

Name

Internal name

Expected input type

``TextLine``

``ezstring``

``string``

 

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

This FieldType makes it possible to store and retrieve a single line of
unformatted text. It is capable of handling up to 255 number of
characters.

 

Validation
^^^^^^^^^^

| The input passed into this filed type is subject of validation by the
``StringLengthValidator`` validator. The length of the string provided
must be between the minimum length defined in ``minStringLength`` and
the maximum defined in ``maxStringLength``. The default value for both
properties is 0, which means that the validation is disabled by default.
| To set the validation properties the
``validateValidatorConfiguration()`` method needs to be inspected, which
will receive an array with ``minStringLength`` and ``maxStringLength``
like in the following representation:

::

    Array
    (
        [minStringLength] => 1
        [maxStringLength] => 60
    )

 

Value object
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Properties
          

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$text``

``string``

This property will be used for the text content.

String representation
                     

A TextLine's string representation is the the $text property's value, as
a string.

Constructor
           

The constructor for this value object will initialize a new Value object
with the value provided. It accepts a string as argument and will import
it to the ``text`` attribute.

 

 

For more details on the Value object for this field type please refer to
the `auto-generated
documentation <http://ezsystems.github.com/ezpublish-kernel/phpDocumentor/Publish.Core.FieldType.TextLine.Value.html#Value>`__.

 

 

 

 

 

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
