#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes <FieldTypes_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : The Selection FieldType
======================================================

Added by ricardo.correia@ez.no , edited by ricardo.correia@ez.no on Sep
24, 2013

Selection
~~~~~~~~~

This field type represents a single selection or multiple choices from a
list of options.

Name

Internal name

Expected input type

``Selection``

``ezselection``

``mixed``

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Selection`` ``FieldType`` stores single selections or multiple
choices from a list of options, by populating a hash with the list of
selected values.

Validation
~~~~~~~~~~

| This ``FieldType`` validates the input, verifying if all selected
options exist in the field definition, and, checks if multiple
selections are allowed in the field definition.
| If any of these validations fail a ``ValidationError``  is thrown,
specifying the error message, and for the case of the option validation
a list with the invalid options is also presented.

Settings
~~~~~~~~

Name

Type

Default value

Description

``isMultiple``

``boolean``

``false``

Used to allow or deny multiple selection from the option list.

``options``

``hash``

``array()``

Stores the list of options defined in the field definition.

**Selection FieldType example settings**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\Selection\Type;
     
    $settings = array(
        "isMultiple" => true,
        "options" => array(1 => 'One', 2 => 'Two', 3 => 'Three')
    );

 

Value object
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Properties
          

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$selection``

``int[]``

This property will be used for the list of selections, which will be a
list of integer values, or one single integer value.

**Value object content examples**

.. code:: theme:

    // Single selection
    $value->selection = 1; 
     
    // Multiple selection
    $value->selection = array( 1, 4, 5 ); 

 

Constructor
           

The \ ``Selection\Value`` constructor accepts an array of selected
elements identifiers.

**Constructor example**

.. code:: theme:

    // Instanciates a selection value with items #1 and #2 selected
    $selectionValue = new Selection\Value( array( 1, 2 ) );

 

 

 

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
