#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes <FieldTypes_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : The Date FieldType
=================================================

Added by petar.spanja@ez.no , edited by bertrand.dunogier@ez.no on Jul
16, 2013

Date
~~~~

This field type represents a date without time information.

Name

Internal name

Expected input type

``Date``

``ezdate``

``mixed``

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

This FieldType makes possible to store and retrieve a date information.

Input expectations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If input value is of type ``string`` or ``integer``, it will be passed
directly to the `PHP's built-in ``\DateTime`` class
constructor <http://www.php.net/manual/en/datetime.construct.php>`__,
therefore the same input format expectations apply.

It is also possible to directly pass an instance of ``\DateTime``.

Type

Example

``string``

``"2012-08-28 12:20 Europe/Berlin"``

::

    integer

::

    1346149200

::

    \DateTime

::

    new \DateTime()

Icon

Time information is **not stored**.

Before storing, given input value will be set to the the beginning of
the day in the given or the environment timezone.

Validation
^^^^^^^^^^

This FieldType does not use any special validation of the input value.

Settings
^^^^^^^^

The field definition of this FieldType can be configured with one
option:

Name

Type

Default value

Description

::

    defaultType

::

    Type::DEFAULT_EMPTYType::DEFAULT_CURRENT_DATE

::

    Type::DEFAULT_EMPTY

The constant used here defines default input value when using
administration interface.

**Date FieldType example settings**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\Date\Type;

    $settings = array(
        "defaultType" => Type::DEFAULT_EMPTY
    );

Value object
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Properties
          

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$date``

``\DateTime``

This property will be used for the text content.

String representation
                     

String representation of the date value will generate the date string in
the format "l d F Y" as accepted by `PHP's built-in ``date()``
function <http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.date.php>`__.

Example: Wednesday 22 May 2013

Constructor
           

The constructor for this value object will initialize a new Value object
with the value provided. It accepts an instance of `PHP's built-in
``\DateTime``
class <http://www.php.net/manual/en/datetime.construct.php>`__.

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
