#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes <FieldTypes_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.<next> : The MapLocation FieldType
========================================================

Added by ricardo.correia@ez.no , edited by ricardo.correia@ez.no on Nov
15, 2013

Relation
~~~~~~~~

This field type represents a map location.

| 

Name

Internal name

Expected input

``MapLocation``

``ezgmaplocation``

``mixed``

| 

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

This FieldType makes possible to store and retrieve data related to a
location in the map.

As input it expects two float values, latitude, longitude, and a string
value in third place, corresponding to the name or address of the
location.

| 

Input expectations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Type

Example

``array``

::

    array(59.928732, 10.777888, "eZ Systems Norge")

 

Value object
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Properties
          

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$latitude ``

``float``

This property will store the latitude value of the map location
reference.

::

    $longitude

``float``

This property will store the longitude value of the map location
reference.

``$address``

``string``

This property will store the address of map location.

**Value object content example**

.. code:: theme:

    $MapLocation->value = array( 59.928732, 10.777888, "eZ Systems Norge" );

 

Constructor
           

| The ``MapLocation``\ ``\Value`` constructor will initialize a new
Value object with the values provided. Two floats and a string are
expected.

**Constructor example**

.. code:: theme:

    // Instantiates a MapLocation Value object
    $MapLocationValue = new MapLocation\Value( 59.928732, 10.777888, "eZ Systems Norge" );

 

| 

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 12, 2014 16:43
